Everybody marched to the MSC and you had to go by these booths.
And I can't recall how some sophomore checked to make sure that you had gone there.
Maybe you had to pick up a card or something that said you had been to that.
But that all of a sudden here were a lot of areas where I had an interest versus living in a dormitory and being in the quasi-military unit that made no sense to me
And that I guess I was as puzzled or confused, if you would, over life of a freshman because how could you get someone to do what you wanted to do by yelling at them so much?
And over here, you were treated like a human being.
And that they had areas of interest.
And, you know, why would I want to memorize the name of some mummy
in the museum at A&M or know how many bird nests there were on Cebiza Dining Hall in 1901 or any one of a number of foolish things that over here the student center made sense.
You had access to magazines, newspapers, information.
You could meet people.
Now there was where my real education at A&M
came, which is not to say that if I had to dissect a frog today, I couldn't do it.
Actually, I can't.
Or if I had to do something, I can't play badminton.
That was one of the courses I took in PE.
I had to have four semesters of PE.
But I haven't played a game of badminton since the early 60s.
But my experiences in the student center have related to my life after Texas A&M.
What were some of those activities in which you became involved?
Describe them.
Well, one of them, of course, the Student Conference on National Affairs, SCONA was still in its infancy back there.
Now, not as a freshman, but as a junior that I went to Mexico, to Monterey, on a fundraising trip down there.
And I can recall because the A&M Club of Monterey held a dinner for us.
And that at that time, one of these old geezers came up to me and he said, at the end of the military reviews, do the horses still charge the reviewing stand?
And I'm looking, where did you come from, fella?
And that that was what they had done back in the 30s when it was the horse cavalry.
And so getting to go to other campuses, I went to Principia up in Illinois for a conference while I was a student there.
But things that had to do with the world in terms of what's going on, politics, things like that, publicity, which one year I was chairman of the publicity committee, and actually Wayne Stark, who was director then,
put me on the payroll for some small monthly stipend to take care of things, writing press releases, different things like that.
I formed a friendship that lasted many years with Jim Lindsay, who was head of university information, describing himself then as Minister of Propaganda for Earl Rudder.
But that he would, you know, I was over at his office two, three times a week.
And he was a Texas Tech graduate, and I think he was probably amused by A&M, but he was a great friend and fan of General Rutter.
And so even after I had graduated and he had gone on to some political appointments, he was on the banking board, if not the head of the banking board in Texas, that I can recall that one time he invited me and my wife,
to join him and his wife for dinner.
I said, that's great.
And he said, well, it's in Austin.
I'm thinking, well, you know, why do we want to go to Austin for dinner?
But that, he said, meet me at Easterwood at 4 o'clock.
And some bank, actually it was Ben Love's bank, I think it was Texas Commerce Bank, sent an airplane up, and we're not talking about a Cherokee or a Comanche or something like this.
This was one that had plush leather seats in it.
that the pilot and co-pilot sat up there, but you could stand up and walk around in this airplane, have the couches.
Understanding from someone whose parents were school teachers, that has grown up in the small town, done things like this, this was not in the realm of things that I did on a day-to-day basis.
But, you know, I met Jim Lindsay through there.
John Lindsay, still active in the Former Students Association, one of the great heroes of the former students.
I met him because he was very close to Wayne Stark and that I met him that way.
Coincidental to all of this, a guy that I had gone to high school with, a private boarding school, was from Houston.
His father had furnished some of the land that the Astrodome, Hoffine Scott, the old judge, that the Astrodome was built on.
I had eight tickets to the opening day of the Astrodome
In 1965, and John Lindsey, if he remembers, you could ask him today, were you there when the dome opened and Mickey Mantle hit the home run?
His answer would be yes, and I sat with Bob Bell.
But Glenn Dromgoole, who has been big in Texas newspapers for years, was one of the others.
But I got to know people like that through the student center.
Describe this man Wayne Stark.
Wayne Stark was a facilitator.
I've mentioned that there were four men that would have had an impact in my life.
Wayne Stark is one of those.
That he would take a raw talent
and I'm probably saying too much and much too kindly about myself, but he would take a person and give them some polish, understanding that I don't think I had any, so he gave me some.
And he was the one who would take you and tell you that your salad fork is the little one, you don't eat peas with a knife,
that the little social graces that we would have had no reason to know and no one certainly to teach it to us that he took students like this and I think probably as much as anybody helped change the reality of many A&M students from being
stereotype from the sticks type people into people who could at least go to some place.
He made lots of introductions.
Of course, John Lindsay I have mentioned.
And I want to have to stretch my mind because I had occasion to go to New York
And a former student that was up there that was a great friend of his that always arranged for tickets to plays and things.
And I cannot think of his name.
He's been dead for several years now.
But met him up there.
But Wayne Stark knew a lot of people.
And he was shameless in calling someone and saying, I have someone.
that I want him to come down and I want you to take him to the art museum and take him to such and such place, then I want you to take him out for a good dinner at a fancy restaurant at your expense.
And I know that there must have been literally dozens, if not hundreds, of former students, well-to-do former students, that when the secretary or someone said, Wayne Stark is on the phone and wants to speak to you, probably said something that I don't want to say on this tape.
that expletive because they knew that Wayne Stark was going to ask them for something.
And he probably has done as much to influence people.
In fact, because of him at one time, I thought that maybe I want to work with students not in a classroom situation, but in a student union type situation.
I think back then he only made $13,000, $14,000 a year, which even in the standards of the 60s was not much money.
I think slang was the green couch treatment.
When a student who was not producing leadership up to their capability, as he judged it, he gave them a lecture.
Did you ever get that lecture?
He was on me pretty regularly about my hair.
because one of the things that I hate to tell this story on myself but that back then I was blessed with a young face and was a little bitty I mean I've never been very tall but I think when I graduated I weighed 142 or 144 pounds in 1965 but I was always you know real small and that
I always kept my hair cut short because I loved to walk around in places where some sophomore would accost me and as the routine would go, and I'll play both parts for the sake of this dialogue, but if you were in a dormitory and you were small and maybe just in a t-shirt and jeans or something, and when I was a junior or senior that a sophomore would look up and down the hall and see somebody they didn't know, and he would holler, howdy.
To which I would respond, howdy.
The sophomore would then say, howdy hell, howdy who?
To which I would respond, howdy hell, howdy you.
And he would be coming down there to find out, you know, what smart aleck freshman, because I look, you know, I'm sure that, uh,
you know in a period of two years in my life I went from looking like I was 15 till I looked like I was 50 but that I always enjoyed that but I always wore a burr haircut even as a senior when you could have hair that was long by A&M standards of the day but I never chose to do it and Wayne Stark was always on me about my haircut and and that was the only thing that I ever recalled that he just not not periodically
but almost weekly would say something to me about it.
Let's see.
Guyon Hall.
Yes.
What happened in Guyon Hall?
My freshman year, I remember two things.
I saw the flamingo guitarist.
What was his name?
Oh, gosh.
He was 90 years old then.
What was his name?
When I, the weekend of my arrival as a freshman, there was a concert there that had two rock and roll bands I'd never heard of before then, never heard of them after.
I went to a couple of events there in Guyon Hall, and I want to say it either burned down or was, I think it burned down, it was torn down?
Guyon, it was leveled.
Okay, that happened while I was here.
While I was here, some significant things happened.
We went co-ed and we integrated.
All right, now let's talk about those for a second.
Okay.
I was part of the committee that recommended those changes.
What was the student reaction, you and your buddies?
What reaction when those changes were being discussed and then were approved?
Again, let me tell it in story form, the integration story first.
There was a young black man named Burnist Evans.
there was a student here, and I guess that he was a civilian, but he was involved in the student center and that Burnist and I were friends.
And that when we integrated, I can recall that the local paper and the battalion each carried stories the first day that we were integrated
announcing that there were some small number of black students.
And it made the first page probably the middle of the page, and it may have been a two column story.
The second day, it may have made a back page story or an inside story, and that was it.
And I can recall that we were walking across the campus, and that when you meet other people, you speak,
If you didn't know one of them, if you didn't, you know, that you just said howdy and went on your way, if you knew one but not the other, you stopped and introduced yourself and so forth.
But Burnist and I were walking across campus together.
And we met two seniors.
And I guess I would have been a junior, 63, sophomore, early junior, something like that.
And we, he was a civilian, the other three of us were in uniform, and we all said howdy.
And as we passed,
One of the other seniors said, have we integrated?
And his companion said, I don't know, to which Bernice Evans then said, I don't know either.
Because for the impact or the change in his life or for any treatment because of the color of his skin, it had not occurred to him.
End of story.
It's well known, well documented, I can add nothing to the fact that when they allowed women who were already coming here in the summer, if they were the wives of students or the wives of faculty, the dam broke.
However, as students, because I was gonna take English 336, Texas English Literature, and that I was a junior
And before class would start, they would post the roster and the professor, and that everybody would always go and check the roster to see if there were going to be any women in their class.
And sure enough, in that class was my first woman.
She turned out to be a retired home demonstration agent that was 65 years old, and we fought to sit by her because it was a woman.
And that perhaps all of the noise and the marches and the demonstrations and the petitions and the threats were, as Shakespeare said, filled with sound and fury signifying nothing.
I'm sure to a lot of people it meant a lot.
But I thought it was a pretty great deal.
Do you remember any off-campus
opponents of those changes who came here to do anything i was not affected or in touch with any of them then i i attended one little session that met at the head of the stairs in the msc the day before the board then board of directors this old gentleman was class of i think 98 and he wanted some of the student leaders to go with him
And I took my coat and tie off and went over there to observe and none of them would go with him.
And I remember he asked the senior class president to go with him and that senior class president said, sir, I will not speak on this issue for the senior class because we have not discussed it and therefore it would not be appropriate.
And if I were to go with you and speak my personal opinion, I can assure you that you would not agree with my opinion.
And this old man went on rambling on and pretty soon demonstrated to the students reason that they felt he was out of touch.
Okay.
He was saying they needed more attention to their trigonometry and their algebra and less to their higher math and they needed more attention to their nouns and their pronouns and how to diagram sentences.
And they thought he was out of touch.
Let's see, you graduated before we had a large number of co-eds at the undergraduate level.
That's right.
So that the routine of student life didn't change very much those first couple of years.
No, that the women that were on campus then, the core had not integrated, not gone co-ed at that point.
that they were there and it was nice to have them.
And I thought, you know, just from a 21, 22-year-old, that was really great.
But it didn't have any impact on me in terms of, you know, how I felt about A&M or, you know, we were not going to go to hell in a hand basket because they had women there, in my opinion.
Do you remember some important, you mentioned a few, who were some important celebrities or other personalities who visited this campus while you were an undergraduate?
I had a chance to meet Warner Von Braun, who anybody in the history of German rocketry, American rocketry, he objected, what I remember about Dr. Von Braun, as he liked to be called, what we called it Von Braun, he called it Von Braun.
that he didn't want to be called a prisoner of war or a captured German.
He wanted to be called an American citizen.
I met Hubert Humphrey here.
Lyndon Johnson was here on many occasions because of his friendship with General Rutter.
I never did meet him personally.
Of course, Congressman Teague.
Back to Humphrey, did you hear him or?
He came here for one of the Sconas, as I recall.
Yes.
And that he was a pharmacist from Minneapolis.
And that despite the fact that he was the Vice President of the United States, he still, it appeared to me, to be a pharmacist from Minneapolis.
And that a lot of people that, when you would say, you know, they were important people, that I'm not sure at that time,
Well, I know for sure that I was not impressed by someone who was a title or wealthy or, you know, had some great station in life because I had none.
Perhaps that was only because I was too dumb to recognize that.
But that when they came, that I guess the characteristic I found is that the more important they were, the nicer they were.
And that, you know, back then in the Student Center, the Former Students Association was next door to the MSC, and there was probably 36 inches between where Buck Wyrus, head of the Former Students Association, went into his domain, and Wayne Stark went into his there on the west side of the MSC.
And so, you know, there were always people going in the Former Students Association that were popping back in there
and helped me out on the name, the great artist that... Buck Shewitz.
Buck Shewitz that had come by there.
And to me, you know, I've dressed today coming from doing manual labor this morning to this meeting this afternoon.
And when Buck Shewitz was in there, he was dressed like a potato farmer.
And that if I had just been sitting and waiting for him, I would have thought he was just a nice old man.
But that I do not recall meeting as a student anybody that came to the MSC or the campus or Dwayne Stark's office
that ever told me they were an important person.
What about, did you see any of the famous musical groups or individuals that came to the campus?
I guess the one that I remember is the one that I liked the most was the Ballet Folklorico of Mexico.
I was very impressed with that, just simply because it was obviously a lot of talent,
and a lot of things that we didn't see on a day-to-day basis.
That I handled the publicity for a lot of the things, and because of that, working in the student center, had a chance with some frequency, again, to meet some of the people.
But probably the one that I like the best no one will remember was a journalist named Robert St.
John.
that I had a chance to sit and talk to him and he told me about all the places that he had been and especially he talked about Berlin at that time.
But I can remember sitting downstairs eating a hamburger with Robert St.
John before he gave a lecture and listening to him tell tales about things that he had done.
But back then if you had, well you generally had something the night of bonfire, after bonfire, the night before bonfire,
But generally the campus was dreadfully dull that there would probably only be three or four things per semester and we were really glad to get that.
Al Hurt was here.
The Kingston Trio came.
I guess Wayne Stark had a propensity, because he had such a limited budget, that he would go to New York once a year and book some acts, but he would have to get the ones that he thought were gonna make it big, and sometimes between the time he booked them for a paltry sum, that they hit the big time.
And here comes somebody that nobody had heard of the week that he booked them, and lo and behold, here they are is
number one type people.
Do you remember anybody that was controversial?
Wayne Stark.
No, I'm meaning the acts, the speakers, the performers.
I do not.
I'm sure that we had them.
I don't either.
That A&M, I mean even today, deeply right-wing Republican,
which would translate in the early 60s to being deeply conservative Democrat, did not have a bevy of speakers, you know, running through here.
They probably have more in three weeks now than they had in a semester.
then, but it was not a campus that stirred up much controversy.
The things that probably you would, you know, I would remember is that we were very much all cut out of the same mold.
Let me give you an example.
My freshman class, I think, started with 43 in my outfit.
Of those 43, there were six kids that brought cars to school.
It was a school that tuition was $50.
Most of them got in the Corps of Cadets, joined the Corps of Cadets because it was mandatory, but also because for $6, $8, you got shoes, pants, shirt, raincoat, jacket,
that it was a chance that a lot of kids got an education that was all the education they could afford.
If you could afford it, you went to the University of Texas.
I just thought of somebody who was here in the fall of 62 for SCONA, the Vice President of the United States, a native Texan, spoke
at I think maybe G. Raleigh, Lyndon Johnson.
Do you remember?
I probably would be more likely to recall that because of the security preparations that went into it and that I remember the event because, as I'm recalling it, that they flew him into or brought him into the area.
He was here and then gone and really didn't interact with any of the students.
I never met Lyndon Johnson personally.
And the Corps commander invited Linda Bird, who was a freshman from Austin that fall.
She came over to hear her father, and the Corps commander had her eat lunch as his guest at Duncan Dining Hall before co-eds were here.
And Skona, in those years, you remember, was right after Thanksgiving.
And the Longhorns had massacred the Aggies a few days before at Kyle Field.
And on a given signal in the middle of the meal, every fish jumped up and yelled, beat to hell out of T, you.
Right.
Go ahead.
And the daughter then of Lyndon Johnson quietly put her napkin on the table, stood up,
pushed her chair under the table.
Meanwhile, the place got deathly silent and all at once threw her hands up with the appropriate Longhorn signal and yelled, hook them horns, and everybody applauded her.
Let me tell another story here just for the sake of telling a story.
Pinky Downs.
Oh, yes.
good that was around there and i don't know a lot of the history someone will be able to fill that in but pinky downs was an old old old man in the early 60s and i had a friendship with leroy capi which we've already talked about leroy and i met in front of the hotel desk at the student center i don't know we were going to have coffee bumped into each other have lunch whatever and uh
He and I were talking and Pinky Downs came up to the two of us.
He didn't know me from Adam, but he knew Leroy Caffey was bound to be somebody because he had a mouth full of gold teeth and he was huge by the standards of that day.
And that in the course of something, Pinky uttered his, beat the hell out of Texas.
And there was a couple checking in at the desk there.
And this lady turned around and said, who said that?
And Pinky, thinking maybe he had offended her, pointed at Leroy and said, this big son of a bitch.
And I was there for that.
Fortunately, two of them are dead, and no one can dispute the story.
But that did happen back in 1965.
What was, as far as you and your friends were aware, what did Pinky do?
What was his role?
He was the official greeter of Texas A&M and probably more the mascot than Reveille.
I really don't know what he did.
I don't know that he did anything.
He was just there.
But, no, but what was his routine of activities?
What did he, on the campus, wasn't he?
I had no idea.
I just saw him and he was pinky downs and that I didn't, I had no interaction with him other than, you know, if he wandered up, that he was always willing to contribute a story.
Unfortunately, it was always the same story.
But he was, seemed to me he was omnipresent
always upbeat about A&M, I think was on the payroll.
Well, has anybody told you the story?
And if they do, hold up your hand and I'll stop telling it here.
But supposedly that Pinky was with the former student association and was being sent somewhere to meet somebody out of town.
And when he got to this community, apparently it was a pastor or something like that, but he went to this church
and they were having a funeral at the church.
And as the service for the funeral, Pinky just went in and just sat down to wait for the pastor to finish.
And that as the service was drawing to conclusion, the pastor stood up and said, you know, is there someone now before we conclude the service that would like to say something about the deceased?
Nothing happened.
So he said, now, before we conclude the service, is there someone who'd like to say something about the deceased?
Well, Pinky didn't know anybody there.
And again, when the silence was there, supposedly, Pinky got up and said, well, if nobody wants to talk about the deceased, could I say a word about A&M?
I don't know if that's a true story, but I'll take the latitude to say it ought to be included in the folklore.
I understand also that he deserves at least partial, if not major credit,
for the omnipresence of our thumbs up hand signal as Gig'em Aggies.
That that, in the olden days, there was an Aggie yell for each of the Southwest Conference schools.
And that when we played TCU, the Horned Frogs, the yell was Gig'em or Gig those Frogs.
and that you put your hand up and kind of used your thumb and that he took that and kind of made it into the all-time Aggie hand signal of Gig'em Aggies.
It's a fascinating story.
I've never heard it before.
I understand that that may be how that came to be.
Let's see.
Religious activities on the campus or around the campus during your undergraduate days.